>> Will Sentance: But take a look at this.
We can produce a beautiful
to do list of our code.
Here it is.
Here in our quiz game, we've taken in
an object here with the name Will and
score three and
we grabbed the player's name.
We then take their first name.
We're then gonna properCase it.
We're then gonna prepend
a label saying this is a user.
We're then gonna create a dom element or
a an element ready with that data in it.
And we can then take that and
render it to the web page.
And people, look at the beauty of this.
Look at this beautiful
readable style of code.
No mysteries here what our
code is actually doing.
But to do so is gonna require us to
wrangle our code out of the mini baby
blocks of code, our little mini functions
in some pretty interesting ways.
It's gonna require us to rejoin those
lines of code up into full size tasks.
We see a preview of it here.
We're gonna make sure that those little
blocks of code are really reusable.
Once you break the task
down to little baby steps,
you can actually reuse those
steps all over the place.
But if you're gonna be reusing
them all over the place,
you probably wanna make sure they're
independent of anything around them.
And that's exactly what we're
gonna have to do today.
We're gonna start off with higher order
functions, and function composition.
As I said, all those little atoms of
code can be reused all over the place.
How we combine them up is gonna
depend on higher order functions and
function composition.
Most of those tasks,
things like implementing a number,
looping through an array,
they're typical tasks.
We can couple them up again.
Use them again.
Write them once, keep it dry,
don't repeat yourself.
Use them again.
>> Will Sentance: As I say, if we're not
going to be using that functionality once
in one place, but all over the place,
well, we better hope that they're
independent and not relying on
bits of data outside of them.
We're gonna need to understand purity
of functions and state immutability.
And if we're gonna be coupling up code and
have those perhaps be running one after
another, not controlled by us but
controlled by some other functions,
we may need to do some pretty
interesting things that adjust
our existing saved functions.
Maybe give them extra powers.
Function decoration with
the help of closure and
partial application with the help of
closure are gonna be our main techniques.
But if we can do it, we're gonna end
up with code that is more readable.
Every single line, so beautiful.
I know exactly what it's doing,
easy to debug.
Every single line nicely labeled, and
an individual unit whose only consequence
is gonna be on the next slide,
not the rest of the application.
No mysteries of what each line does and
the risk of it damaging
the rest of our app.
And easy to add features.
We take these little baby functions,
these little baby units,
we combine them all back up.
We don't have to rewrite the components.
We're just drawing up
pre-written components.
And that's exactly what
we're gonna see today.
It's gonna allow us to build out
applications where functions are reusable,
versatile, flexible little portions of
code, independent, self contained and
predictable steps, passing data from one
to the next to the next to the next.
But it all starts with us being confident
with the core principles of JavaScript.